Your number one goal in self defense still applies when you're traveling, you want to be ready to escape,
to gain safety, no matter where you are.
And that may be harder to do if you're traveling somewhere you don't know as well.
So that means really getting to know your way around where you're traveling.
So you are familiar with all of the possible exit routes and places of safety.
This will also make you a lot more comfortable and confident when you're traveling.
Kind of like feeling like a local, which will make your trip both more safe and more fun.
Study a map of your destination before you go and then while you're on your way there and as soon as
you get there.
Basically, all throughout your journey, the more often the better.
A lot of the accommodations I mentioned earlier will have maps and guides available, as well as some
very friendly people who are happy to walk you through them.
Take advantage of that and put in some study time before you head out on the town.
Learn the major street names and general neighborhoods near you and your planned activities.
Get familiar with the public transit map and make sure you know how one gets and uses a local transit
pass.
You should especially plan out your route before going out at night or to areas where you know you'll
have poor reception and whenever possible.
Plan to arrive at these places during daylight hours.
Then whatever you do, try not to open up that map and stare at it while you're out and about.
This can call attention to you and not the good kind.
You might as well wear a high and lost sign, and that makes you look like a very easy target.
If you must reference a map, keep it folded small and subtle in your hand.
Or better yet, stealthily reference the map on your phone.
If you take or rent a car during your trip, stay inside your car while you peruse your maps and directions.
Park in a busy area and keep the doors locked so you stay protected while your attention is preoccupied.
Then get your bearings quickly, but never fully take your attention off of your immediate surroundings.
If it comes down to it, it's more important to know what's around you right now versus where you're
going next in general.
Don't be afraid to really take the time to think things through and use common sense, even if you think
you'll look a little stupid or seem impolite.
Your safety is more important than your reputation, and with your head full of brains and your shoe
is full of feet, you're too smart to go down any not so good streets.
Besides staying safer, the other benefit to knowing your way around is being free to focus on your
surroundings and really take your time with them, especially if you're traveling alone and you don't
have anyone with you that you have to keep up with or slow down for.
You can go anywhere you want for however long you want at whatever pace you want.
We all have that friend who takes forever to go anywhere or that friend that speeds through a museum
like there's a prize at the end.
Imagine all the stress and guilt that you're saving yourself by traveling solo safely.
It's the ultimate freedom and independence.
And who doesn't want that?
Plus, as a bonus, you'll look more confident as you travel around at the pace that you are most comfortable.